---
layout: post
title: Can New York City be the next Silicon Valley?
---

Over the past couple years many have questioned New York City being the next Silicon Valley. Is New York City really the next tech hub? Or does that title remain to be claimed by someone else, such as London, Dublin, Chicago, or Berlin? Before we can decide, we need to analyze this new trend in technology and tech startups. What actually drives innovation and the ability to successfully create a tech startup? Location is a major factor. Where you are determines which investors and VCs are willing to invest in your company. The higher the volume of investors in your area means the greater the chance of securing funding and becoming a successful company. Location also includes culture, infrastructure, people, capital, and regulations. Where is the culture most dedicated towards innovation? Where is the best infrastructure for people and transportation?  Where is the capital for entrepreneurs and opportunities? Where are the regulations that make it easiest to attain growth when startups can be to uncertain for future? Where many cities lack in these categories others excel. But when planning for the future, where do you pick to start your uncertain, limited, and indefinite fate?

As an NYU student I pride myself in its successes. Most recently, there was an article which ranked NYU as one of the top 6 universities that graduates the most entrepreneurs. What is it about NYU that pushes individuals to be entrepreneurs? Maybe its the fact that our education is so pricey that we need an effective way to get out of debt. Or maybe it’s because these top notch professors focus on students to create something of their own. The idea of ownership is consistently illustrated. Be your own boss, create your own realm, own your product or design. The capacity to build and lead generates a formula for entrepreneurship. Of the 6, NYU and Harvard are experiencing the fastest growth. Tech and software, specifically, are leading the two in funding and the number of deals closed. With NYU graduates seeing increased growth in technology over the next couple of years, it seems as New York City will have an abundance of entrepreneur-minded individuals at its disposal for innovative ideas and possibly the next Google. That is, if it isn’t already here.

In my opinion, more NYU students are immersing themselves in the tech startup ecosystem. Slowly but surely they are starting to understand the benefits of working within a small company and doing “meaningful” work. Being a part of a small team forces you to jump outside of your comfort zone and work on projects you may not already have an expertise in. Eventually, you become a jack of all trades, a craftsmen in all areas of business, marketing, sales, and technology. You become a valuable asset to your team because you posses and display knowledge of all aspects of a company. I have a lot of friends who have been working in finance for the past 3 years and many of them are now sick and tired of the long hours and meaningless work which is never recognized. They are witnessing the importance of creating something and seeing it grow, and the opportunity to be something or someone. No longer is it about the money and security of a corporate job, but instead the unpredictable adventure of becoming something from absolutely nothing.

*Reference Links*

* <http://edudemic.com/2013/03/which-schools-graduate-the-most-entrepreneurs/>
* <http://www.wired.com/business/2013/03/you-cant-help-loving-tech-companies/>