---
layout: post
title: Funding At It's Finest
---

Yo!, the messaging app which allows users to send the word "Yo" to other users, has riled up a ton of people. Just recently they raised $1.2 million in angel funding, at a time when many great startups are overlooked and find difficutly in raising funding. When the news broke, many of my coworkers laughed. Some thought they could have come up with the app themselves. Startups and funding can be a touchy subject. Many struggle to find the proper funding even if they create a great product. I thought it would be interesting to analyze funding trends and see if there were any profound insights. I decided to use a tool called datapad and the crunchbase data set (last updated April 2014)

Crunchbase is a database used to aggregate startup activity. It contains information about founders, investors, funding rounds, location, news, and even more. I use crunchbase pretty often to keep track of new startups being funded and which startups are trending across the web. Using the data set they released publically and datapad I drilled down into the different funding rounds.

Series A 
-------------

Given that a Series A round of funding is usually the most important/significant round for a startup I decided to start there. Over the past few years many comapnies have raised a Series A round of funding which is usually between $1 to $5 million dollars, but can be upwards of $70 million. The Series A round helps companies kickstart growth by hiring more employees and using some of that capital towards marketing needs. Of all company categories; software, web, and biotech companies ruled on top. Of the software companies, SF and NYC were the most common city. 

In the past 5 years SF has outnumbered the number of companies with a Series A round by 34%. To place that into actual numbers, that is almost 200 more companies that have been invested in. That is a whole lot more money flowing into SF's ecosystem and only increasing the chances of acquisitions and IPOs for those investors. SF doubled the number of companies in the top categories as well. But if we take a closer look each year NYC has grown in the number of Series A companies. If NYC can continue this upward trend, which I don't see slowing down any time soon because of the abundant accelerator/VCs, it can definitely catch up to SF. 

Series B
--------------

After companies are up and running and hopefully managing some incoming revenue, they open up a Series B round of funding for additional investors to stimulate growth. These rounds of funding can range from medium to very large amounts, 
